\# Crypto_Data_Tracker This project is a Node.js application that
fetches cryptocurrency data (Bitcoin, Matic, and Ethereum) from
CoinGecko, stores it in MongoDB, and provides various endpoints to
retrieve and analyze this data.

Features Fetches real-time cryptocurrency data from CoinGecko (price,
market cap, 24h change) every 2 hours. Provides an API /stats to get the
latest data for a specified cryptocurrency. Provides an API /deviation
to calculate the standard deviation of the price for a cryptocurrency
based on the last 100 records in the database. Installation
Prerequisites Node.js: Ensure that you have Node.js installed on your
system. You can download it from nodejs.org. MongoDB: You need a MongoDB
instance running. You can use either a local MongoDB instance or a
cloud-based MongoDB like MongoDB Atlas. Setup Clone the repository:

bash Copy code git clone \<repository-url\> Install dependencies: Inside
the project directory, run the following command to install all required
dependencies:

bash Copy code npm install This will install the following packages:

express: Web framework for building the API server. mongoose: MongoDB
ORM for interacting with the MongoDB database. axios: To make HTTP
requests to the CoinGecko API. dotenv: To load environment variables
from a .env file. node-cron: For scheduling the background job to fetch
cryptocurrency data every 2 hours. Environment Variables Create a .env
file in the root directory of the project and add the following
variables:

env Copy code MONGODB_URI=mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/cryptoDB \# MongoDB
connection string PORT=3000 \# Port to run the server For MongoDB Atlas,
the MONGODB_URI would look like:

env Copy code
MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://\<username\>:\<password\>@cluster.mongodb.net/cryptoDB?retryWrites=true&w=majority
Running the Application Start the server:

bash Copy code npm start The server will start running on
http://localhost:3000 by default.

You should now be able to access the following endpoints:

/stats: To get the latest data for a cryptocurrency. Example:
http://localhost:3000/stats?coin=bitcoin /deviation: To get the standard
deviation of the price for a cryptocurrency. Example:
http://localhost:3000/deviation?coin=bitcoin Cron Job A background cron
job is set up to fetch data from CoinGecko every 2 hours and store it in
the MongoDB database. This will run automatically as soon as the server
starts.

API Endpoints 1. /stats GET: Retrieve the latest data for a specified
cryptocurrency.

Query Parameters:

coin: The cryptocurrency to fetch data for. Can be one of the following:
bitcoin, matic, ethereum. Example:

bash Copy code GET /stats?coin=bitcoin Response:

json Copy code { \"price\": 40000, \"marketCap\": 800000000,
\"24hChange\": 3.4 } 2. /deviation GET: Calculate the standard deviation
of the price for the last 100 records for a specified cryptocurrency.

Query Parameters:

coin: The cryptocurrency to calculate the deviation for. Can be one of
the following: bitcoin, matic, ethereum. Example:

bash Copy code GET /deviation?coin=bitcoin Response:

json Copy code { \"deviation\": 4082.48 } NPM Packages The following NPM
packages are required to run this project:

express: Web framework for building the server. mongoose: MongoDB ORM
for managing MongoDB interactions. axios: HTTP client for making API
requests to CoinGecko. dotenv: For loading environment variables.
node-cron: To schedule the background job for fetching cryptocurrency
data. To install all the dependencies, run:

bash Copy code npm install Development If you want to contribute or make
modifications to the project:

Fork the repository. Clone your fork. Make your changes. Push your
changes and create a pull request. License This project is licensed
under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Additional Notes Ensure MongoDB is running before starting the
application. The background job that fetches cryptocurrency data from
CoinGecko runs every 2 hours. You can modify this frequency by updating
the cron job in cron.js. Make sure your MongoDB URI is correctly set up
in the .env file for connecting to your MongoDB instance.
